This will be the NASA Space Story number 1076, 4 minutes 30 seconds coming in 3,
2, 1.
This is the Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to you by
this station and NASA. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
solar maximum mission
satellite which was retrieved and repaired in orbit during a recent space
shuttle mission Solar Max's seven scientific instruments are constantly looking
at the sun in search of clues that will help scientists understand solar flares
and other solar phenomena. Project scientist for Solar Maximum Mission is Dr.
Bruce Woodgate. Solar flares. These are very large explosions on the sun which
occur in magnetic loops. They're a magnetic structure sticking up out of the
sun, usually forming closed loops in active regions on the sun, around sunspots.
Also, there are open field regions which are called coronal holes and these are
the origin of the solar wind, which streams out into the Earth's environment and
hits the Earth and cause magnetic storms when they switch over from one magnetic
polarity to another. Solar Max gathered a wealth of information until it lost
its ability to point with fine precision at the Sun. The successful Solar
Maximum Repair Mission last April not only demonstrated the shuttle's capability
to service satellites in space, but it also revived the most ambitious and
successful solar flare research ever attempted. Shortly after its repair,
SolarMax detected the largest solar flares seen by any instrument. Right after
the repair we did see extreme activity. The primary mission is still to find out
the physics of flares and see if we can find out anything about their
predictability, about the buildup to when a flare would occur, what their
triggering mechanisms are. Scientists also want to understand more about the
relationship between the sun and the earth. As both flares and active
prominences erupt out of the sun, they give rise to mass ejections from the
corona. Pieces of the corona blast off and go into the solar wind, and they
travel along magnetic field lines, through the solar wind, and some of them will
hit the earth and give rise to large magnetic storms. These disturbances can
trigger dramatic environmental effects. Auroras streak the skies in the northern
latitudes. Radio communications are garbled. Surges in power lines can cut off
electricity and darken entire cities. And orbiting spacecraft and astronauts are
endangered. Scientists would like to know more about solar flares in order to
forecast when and how unusual solar activity will affect the Earth's
environment. Another area they're trying to understand is the solar cycle
itself. We want to look at the total solar flux, which appears to have been
declining something like a tenth of a percent over the last four years from 1980
to 1984. If this decline were to occur and continue over many decades, it would
eventually affect the climate on Earth. Another area of research is cometary
physics. We intend to observe Comet Halley in early 1986. For about two months,
as the comet gets nearest to the Sun, where it's most active and most
interesting and brightest, it gets so close to the Sun that it can't be observed
by telescopes from the ground or by other instruments from satellites, such as
the International Ultraviolet Explorer because it can't look closer than 45
degrees to the Sun without burning itself out. But we intend to go off every
third orbit for about two months. So we'll have an observation about every four
or five hours of the comet and go off and observe it, particularly with the
coronagraph instrument and see the structure of the tail. So that's interesting
both for cometary physics and for the effects on the solar wind, or the effects
of the solar wind upon the comet.
This has been The Space Story, A weekly space and aeronautics report brought to
you by this station and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
This will be the NASA Space Story, number 1077. Four minutes, thirty seconds.
Coming in three, two, one.
This is The Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to you by
this station, and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
In January of this year, President Reagan directed NASA to begin the development
of a space station, setting a new goal in space for America. The space station
will weigh approximately 40 tons, house six to eight men and women for up to six
months at a time, and offer living quarters somewhat larger than a one-bedroom
apartment. The station will come equipped with scientific and industrial
laboratories, a satellite repair shop, a telescope platform for observing the
sky, and another platform for looking back at Earth. It will also have a half
acre of solar cells furnishing 75 kilowatts of electric power. Dr. Robert
Jastrow, former director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies and now a
professor at Dartmouth, believes that once the space station is in place,
science gets a free ride on it. The most important scientific projects that NASA
has ever orbited, in my opinion, are the astronomical observatories. There are
four of them, four great observatories. The Space Telescope, the advanced x-ray
observatory, Axaf, the gamma-ray observatory, and the advanced infrared
observatory. And they're going up between about 1986 and the year 2000. Possibly
the most interesting projects in science in this century because they can
reveal, give us information about how the universe came into being, they can see
out to the edge of space back into the beginning of time. With the space
station, you can repair and refurbish these instruments in orbit. You can extend
their lifetime to many decades by taking out the instruments of the vintage of
1980 or 1990 and installing new instruments at the focal point of the telescope
with electronics and devices that we don't even dream about now but that will
exist in the year 2000. We asked Dr. Jastrow to explain how these observatories
will open new windows to the universe. the space telescope can see twice as far
as telescopes on the ground even larger ones because the turbulence of the
earth's atmosphere does not blur its vision and it makes sharper images and
therefore can see a fainter objects farther away if we can see out to the edge
view of the universe because light travels at a finite speed that's the same as
seeing back to the moment of creation the so-called big bang the gamma ray
observatory will tell us something about gamma rays such as those produced by
the annihilation of matter and antimatter. It'll be an insight which will point
us in some whole new direction towards perceiving the mysteries of the cosmos.
The infrared observatory will reveal hidden objects in space dark objects. It
will tell us how stars and planets form." A space station could also serve as a
staging area for assembling planetary missions. Alistair B. B. There are certain
flights to the planets of tremendous general interest which are too expensive to
be done on a one-shot approach by direct descent from the ground. I have in mind
especially setting up a base on the moon for scientific observations and then
carrying out an unmanned flight to Mars with the return of a surface sample. The
second mission will shed light on the question of Martian life, which was never
satisfactorily resolved by Viking. There is another application of the station
that has commercial value and may also have great humanitarian importance. And
that relates to the possibility of manufacturing life-saving medicines in space
with yields of 400 to 800 times the yields you can get on the ground. Now, what
a great return that is to the taxpayer and to the well-being of our society out
of this new development in the NASA program.
This has been the Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to
you by this station and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
This will be NASA Space Story number 1078, 4 minutes 30 seconds, coming in 3.
Two, one.
This is the Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to you by
this station and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 10. We
have a go for main engine start. 7, 6, 5. We have main engine start. We have a
cutoff. NTT, we have an SSR support. We have an abort by the onboard computers
of the Orbiter Discovery. Last June, an onboard computer on the space shuttle
Discovery detected a valve failure and ordered a shutdown of the craft's main
engines just a few seconds before liftoff. It was the first launch abort in the
12-mission history of the shuttle program and the second such abort in the 23
years of American manned space flight. The first occurred during the Gemini 6
mission in 1965. Jesse Moore is the acting Shuttle director at NASA Headquarters
in Washington, DC. Jesse Moore, General Shuttle Director System We had a problem
with one of the valves in engine number three. The system immediately switched
from channel A to the redundant channel B and started the operation. The general
purpose computer at that time, sensed that we didn't have full redundancy on
each of the engines. So it started a shutdown sequence. That's the way the
system was designed. That's the way it's tested during the test programs. And
our software system then begins an orderly shutdown of the engines. And at the
time the shutdown sequence occurs, we inhibit the ignition command to the solid
rocket boosters so the shuttle doesn't lift off. The faulty engine has been
removed from Discovery and has gone through rigorous testing at NASA's National
Space Technology Laboratories in Mississippi. We feel very confident that we
will be able to identify the problem that we had on the launch pad and that we
have since put a new engine back into Discovery. And the engines we have on
Discovery now are the original engines that we had on board at the time we did a
flight readiness firing back in the May time frame prior to our attempted launch
in June. So we feel very confident that the engines will work fine on this
particular upcoming launch of Discovery. NASA is planning to combine the cargo
from what was to be the June flight, or 41D, and a second flight, originally
slated for August 29th. The payloads and discoveries flight now include the
solar array, designed to study the possibilities of obtaining electrical power
from the Sun for future satellites, and the electrophoresis experiment, a 700
-pound box designed by McDonnell-Douglas Corporation to manufacture drug
components in orbit for medical purposes. Both of these experiments were
originally scheduled for Discovery's first flight. The astronauts will also
deploy several communications satellites. The crew on Discovery's maiden flight
will remain the same as was assigned to the 41D June mission. Later on this
year, in another space shuttle mission, NASA may attempt to rescue two
satellites which were lost in space last February. We are optimistic about being
officially requested to go and retrieve those two satellites, although we still
do not have a formal request from either the Indonesians or Western Union or the
underwriters which represented the insurance companies which insured those two
particular launches. In the rescue, NASA would command the satellites to fire
their small engines, lowering their orbits so that Challenger could reach them.
If that worked, the satellites would be ordered to slow their spin rate to about
one revolution per minute. an astronaut wearing the jet powered manned
maneuvering unit could move from Challenger to rendezvous with the satellites. I
think the future potential of the shuttle is virtually unlimited. For many
year's the possibility of flying into space was limited to trained astronauts.
In the near future NASA will be looking into the possibility of flying ordinary
citizens into space journalists, poets, writers, scientists, engineers or anyone
with a particular experiment or job to do in space.
This has been the Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to
you by this station and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
This will be NASA's Space Story number 1079, 4 minutes, 30 seconds. Coming in 3,
2, 1.
This is the Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to you by
this station and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Back in 1980, a small California company was contracted by NASA to develop a new
type of safety net for use on the space shuttle. The net had to be fire
-resistant and also strong. Nomex was the only flame-retardant material
available that would do the job, but it was not very strong. The nets had to
withstand an impact of 3,500 pounds. Bill Kirkland, president of West Coast
Netting, continues this story. Those design criterias that we were faced with
were very, very stringent because of the low tenacity fiber that we had. The
fiber being down in strength, 70% from nylon, 65% from polyester, was the real
problem is how to get the net to work and to withstand the loads. In the process
of doing this, we have arrived with a new type of twisting for making twines,
which under load will break evenly, as opposed to one of the three ends failing
by themselves, which has been what has been done in the past. By doing it this
way, we have gained tensile strength of somewhere around 10%. We have tied that
manufacturing process to the fishing industry, and along with that have a new
product called Hyperester, which is a high-density, high-specific gravity in the
polyester family fiber, and this product is designed to compete with what the
Japanese or the average tuna net has been built out of for the last 25 years.
The Japanese net is composed of a tubular design material which must fill with
water in order to sink. So consequently, it's not as efficient a tool as it
could be. The product that we have designed is a twisted product which has no
voids in the middle of it. It's a high specific gravity product which means it
weighs 2.7 times more than nylon in the water and loses no tensile strength when
it's wet. Production has been increased from 17 tons on an average per set to 55
tons, on an average, per set, this type of production is definitely significant.
We have also had sets that have run up over four, five, up to 700 tons. With the
product we've got to learn how to fish all over again because of the production
being so great. Because the American fishing industry has been facing rising
costs in equipment and fuel, it's been difficult to compete against foreign
fishing fleets. The vessels are becoming more and more expensive. They're up
into the 10 million dollar range, and burning fuel, a million dollars worth of
fuel a year. So we feel like this is definitely a significant gain. There's not
too many times that you come along and you can develop a product for an industry
and show a gain factor of 20, 30 percent. We feel like that's a rather
conservative figure. Our production has continued to show us that we were
averaging somewhere around three times more production than what the current net
is being used. What that means to the fishermen is that an 80-day trip is
reduced down to 29 days. The 29 days versus the 80 days at 5,000 gallons of fuel
a day, just the fuel savings alone becomes monumental. Fishing Nets, a new space
age spin-off with down-to-earth, down-to-the-sea applications.
This has been the Space Story, a weekly space and aeronautics report brought to
you by this station and NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
This will be the NASA Space Story number 1076. 4 minutes 30 seconds. Coming in
3, 2, 1.
This is The Space Story, A weekly space and aeronautics report brought to you
by...